mind your decisions I'm presto Walker in
square ABCD connect the corner a to the
opposite side DC dividing it into
lengths of 1 & 2 repeat this procedure
for the other 3 corners of the square
the result will be 4 lines that bound a
square shown in blue the question is
what is the area of the square in blue
divided by the area of the square ABCD
in other words what fraction of the
square ABCD is shaded in blue you can
also solve the general problem where we
replace 2 with the variable X pause the
video if you'd like to give this problem
a try and when you're ready keep
watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
one way to solve this problem is by
considering the area of the
parallelogram shown in green will
calculate its area in two different ways
one way to calculate the area is by
taking the base of X and the height of X
plus 1 the area is then the product of
the base and the height which is equal
to X multiplied by the quantity X plus 1
but there's another way that we can
calculate the area of the parallelogram
we'll take the height to be the length s
of this square and we'll take the base
to be the hypotenuse of this right
triangle we can calculate the length of
this hypotenuse using the gogit theorem
it'll be equal to the square root of 1
plus the quantity X plus 1 squared we
then take the product of the base and
the height to get another formula for
the area of the parallelogram we thus
have two different ways to express the
area of the parallelogram so we set
those equal to each other
well then solve this equation for s we
want the area of this square which will
be equal to s squared we then want to
divide it by the area of the entire
square ABCD this is equal to the
quantity X plus 1 squared we thus take
the Rachele will then cancel out the X
plus 1 squared terms and that will leave
us with the fraction of the square
that's shaded in blue we can then solve
for particular values for example if X
is equal to 2 we can easily calculate
that the fraction that's shaded in blue
will be equal to 2 over 5 and that's the
answer it's a very neat geometry problem
thanks for making mind your decisions
one of the best channels on YouTube as
always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]